as long as I hold this office I will do
whatever it takes to put this economy
back on track and put this country back
to work President Obama had his first
nationally televised news conference on
Monday it's a rite of passage for any
new chief executive but the stakes are
particularly high here because Obama is
trying to respond to the worsening
financial crisis by prodding Congress to
pass a huge economic recovery program
Obama depicted any sort of resistance as
hurting Americans and he harked back to
a trip he took earlier in the day to
Elkhart Indiana one of the hardest hit
metropolitan areas where joblessness has
soared over the past year pointing to
real people flesh and blood examples of
the downturn so what I'm trying to
underscore is what the people in Elkhart
already understand that this is not your
ordinary run-of-the-mill recession we
are going through the worst economic
crisis since the Great Depression Obama
tried to portray this economic passage
as an imperfect but necessary step
saying if it isn't past the pain will
just multiplied many times over he tried
to depict the people who are resisting
this as either ideologues who are too
rooted in their opposition to even
countenance a relief package on this
measure or people who are playing old
Washington games and of course that fits
into his image of the outsider who's
coming to change the way that Washington
works when I made a series of overtures
to the Republicans going over to meet
with both Republican caucuses you know
putting three Republicans in my cabinet
something that is unprecedented making
sure that they were invited here to the
White House to talk about the economic
recovery plan all those were not
designed simply to get some short-term
votes they were designed to try to build
up some trust over time and I think that
as I continue to make these overtures oh
time hopefully that will be reciprocated
I think his cell job isn't complete the
polling suggests that this thin majority
of Americans support the stimulus
package many more have a favorable view
of Obama and a favorable view of how
he's trying to handle the economy so you
have this phenomenon right now where the
president is much more popular than the
legislation is flogging and I think
going forward out of this news
conference he probably certainly helped
his public image he came across again
it's very cool rational in command of
the facts and putting his opponents on
their heels a bit but at the same time
the criticism of this package appears to
be resonating so the sales job is not
complete